---
layout: post
title: Vundle plugin manager in vim and neovim
---

Vundle is one of the many plugins manager for vim (and neovim). These come handy when installing 
or removing plugins in vim.

Following are notes I took as part of dealing with Vundle. I published these in the hope that these
might help someone else someday, and allows me to practice some touch typing.

Source [Vundle Github](https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim)

## Vundle Installation

* Install git.
* Clone the GitHub repo and setup (which here means just copying to .vim)

{% highlight bash%}
$ git clone https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim.git ~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim
{% endhighlight %}

* Tell vim to load it at startup. That means change to `.vimrc` file. Here is mine.

{% highlight vimscript%}
" In ~/.vimrc file.
" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
" Vundle plugin manager setup
" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
filetype off                  " required

" set the runtime path to include Vundle and initialize
set rtp+=~/.vim/bundle/Vundle.vim
call vundle#begin()

" let Vundle manage Vundle, required
Plugin 'VundleVim/Vundle.vim'

" -- Every plugin are added here, in between vundle#begin() and vundle$end() --

" All of your Plugins must be added before the following line
call vundle#end()            " required
filetype plugin indent on    " required
{% endhighlight %}

## Installation of a new plugin

Here are the steps to add the `nerdtree` plugin. 
For simple plugins like `nerdtree` no extra software is required. However, some might extra
requirements, in these cases, you need to follow/install the documentation/requirements.

* Edit `~/.vimrc` and add these line between vundle#begin() and vundle$end(). In the next step when
  you run `:PluginInstall`, Vundle will clone its GitHub repo and set it up.

{% highlight vimscript%}
 Plugin 'preservim/nerdtree'
{% endhighlight %}

* Open/Reopen vim

{% highlight vim%}
:PluginInstall
{% endhighlight %}

These plugins are installed in their respective folders under `~/.vim/bundle`.

## Remove a plugin

Just remove the corresponding `Plugin` line in `~/.vimrc` and reopen vim, then run `:PluginClean`.
This will remove any plugin that is no more configured in `.vimrc` file.

It also removes its folder from `~/.vim/bundle`.
