---
layout: post
title: Rust notes - Lifetime Elision rules
categories: rust
---

The patterns programmed into Rust’s analysis of references are called the `lifetime elision` rules.

If Rust deterministically applies the rules but there is still ambiguity as to what lifetimes the 
references have, the compiler will give you an error that you can resolve by adding the lifetime 
annotations.

Lifetimes on function method parameters are called _input lifetimes_, and lifetimes on return 
values are called _output lifetimes_.

The compiler uses _three_ rules to figure out the lifetimes of the references when there are’t 
explicit annotations

* The _First rule_ applies to _input lifetimes_, and the 
* _Second_ and _Third_ rules apply to _output lifetimes_.

## First rule:

The compiler assigns a lifetime parameter to each parameter that’s a reference. 

In other words, a function with one parameter gets one 
lifetime parameter: `fn foo<'a>(x: &'a i32);`.

A function with two parameters gets two separate 
lifetime parameters: `fn foo<'a, 'b>(x: &'a i32, y: &'b i32);` and so on.

## Second rule:

The second rule is that, if there is exactly one input lifetime parameter, that 
lifetime is assigned to all output lifetime parameters: `fn foo<'a>(x: &'a i32) -> &'a i32`.

## Third rule:

The third rule is that, if there are multiple input lifetime parameters, but one of them is 
`&self` or `&mut self` because this is a method, the lifetime of `self` is assigned to all 
output lifetime parameters.

### Example:

Using the `longest` function that had no lifetime parameters when we started working with it in 
Listing below:

```
fn longest(x: &str, y: &str) -> &str {
```

Lets apply the elision rules ourselves and see if we can determine the lifetime of all the input and
output references.

Applying the first rule, we assign lifetime parameters to each parameter.

```
fn longest<'a, `b>(x: &'a str, y: &'b str) -> &str {
```

Now the second rule does not apply here, because `longest` has more than one parameter. 
Moving on to the third rule, it also does not apply, because there is no `&self` or `&mut self`.
This does means, that the output lifetime could not be determined by the compiler, with the elision
rules themselves.
